#summary Some more info about the project
#labels Featured

=Library=
The library (reads files, etc) is written in plain C and will support both Windows, UNIX and Mac systems. The only library it uses at the moment is iconv, which can be disabled.

*Status: Reads uncompressed PL2 files, attribute resources and TMB resources *

=Viewer=
The current viewer is being written in C++ and uses QT4 with OpenGL extensions, it should run on Windows, UNIX and Mac systems. Obviously the viewer requires a fair amount of libraries, although they should be installed on most UNIX boxes, and will be included in the binary distributions for Windows.

The OpenGL "engine" code (thing that draws, resource manages, animates, etc) is written in C++ and will be kept some what separate from the QT front end, so it can be easily made stand alone.

Why use QT4 anyway? It makes development much easier, since I don't have to worry about writing my own UI library, own dialogs, etc. And I have have loads of debug controls, etc.

It uses shaders (written in Cg) so you'll need a video card (and driver) that supports shaders. I'm not sure what shader profile I'll end up using, but it'll probably be 2 or 3.

*Status: Can load multiple models, supports lighting, etc*

=TODO=
(in some sort of order)

  # TSB format support
  # Bone palette generation (model seem to use around 200 bones, but shader only have about 30 loaded at a time)
  # Animation
  # Clean up and upload initial release (Source and Win32 binary)
  # PL2 decompression
  # Import/Export tools
  # PSD icon loading (Why they use PSD⁈⁈)
  # Odd script file support